# Docusaurus

## Quick Start

Docusaurus is essentially a second application within our repo, with its own `package.json`. To start Docusaurus locally, run the following commands:

```terminal
cd docusaurus
pnpm install
pnpm start
```

## Why Documentation Should Live in the Repository

Documentation should live in the repository to ensure it stays close to the code it describes. This approach provides several benefits:

1. **Version Control**: Documentation evolves alongside the codebase, ensuring it remains accurate and up-to-date. Changes to the code and documentation can be reviewed together in pull requests.
2. **Collaboration**: Developers can contribute to both the code and its documentation in the same workflow, fostering a culture of maintaining high-quality documentation.
3. **Discoverability**: Keeping documentation in the repository makes it easier for developers to find and reference it while working on the code.
4. **Consistency**: By integrating documentation into the same repository, it becomes easier to enforce standards and ensure consistency across the project.
5. **Automation**: Tools like Docusaurus can automatically generate and deploy documentation from the repository, streamlining the process and reducing manual effort.

## What is Docusaurus

The documentation you're reading now was written and deployed using [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/docs). Docusaurus is an open-source framework designed to help developers build, deploy, and maintain documentation websites efficiently. Documentation can be written in markdown or mdx files and Docusaurus will generate a static website that is organized based on folder structure and file names.

Docusaurus is incredibly feature rich. It is worth it to glance through the [Docusaurus Documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs) to get an idea as to what is possible.

## Scripts

:::tip
For more details see [Docusaurus CLI Documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/cli)
:::

| Script                    | Description                                                               |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `pnpm docusaurus`         | Alias for running the Docusaurus CLI                                      |
| `pnpm start`              | Builds and serves a preview of your site locally with Webpack Dev Server. |
| `pnpm build`              | Compiles your site for production.                                        |
| `pnpm swizzle`            | Swizzle a theme component to customize it.                                |
| `pnpm deploy`             | Deploys your site with GitHub Pages.                                      |
| `pnpm clear`              | Clear a Docusaurus site's generated assets, caches, build artifacts.      |
| `pnpm serve`              | Serve your built website locally.                                         |
| `pnpm write-translations` | Write the JSON translation files that you will have to translate.         |
| `pnpm write-heading-ids`  | Add explicit heading IDs to the Markdown documents of your site.          |
| `pnpm typecheck`          | Checks for TypeScript type errors to ensure type safety.                  |

## Notable Features

- Most of the features this documentation site uses comes from the [Docs Guide](https://docusaurus.io/docs/docs-introduction) and [Markdown Features Guide](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features).
- These docs use autogenerated sidebar feature. The names of sidebar items are based on file names. This can me modified using `_category_.json` files. [Read more here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated#category-item-metadata)
- An understanding of the [Docusaurus configuration file](https://docusaurus.io/docs/configuration) may also be beneficial

## Usage with Prettier

- Prettier might auto-format code to invalid syntax when also using Docusaurus [admonition](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions) feature. Read [Usage with Prettier Documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions#usage-with-prettier) to learn how to correct for this.
- Prettier supports only the legacy MDX v1. If you get an unintentional formatting result, you may want to add `{/* prettier-ignore */}` before the problematic area, or add `*.mdx` to your `.prettierignore`, until Prettier has proper support for MDX v3. [One of the main authors of MDX recommends remark-cli with remark-mdx](https://github.com/orgs/mdx-js/discussions/2067).

## Useful VS Code Setting

VS Code automatically sets some Markdown-specific settings behind the scenes that override general user settings, such as the `"editor.wordWrap": "on"` setting. If you'd like `.mdx` to wordwrap as well add the following to your VS Code settings file:

"[mdx]": {
"editor.wordWrap": "on"
}
